
SAMPLES PUT UNDER 10 SECONDS:

"A better way forward, however, is for doctors to teach their patients the difference between threat and control.", 
    "We’re talking about “Wonderful Coke. It’s a drink that tastes just like a “tea from Finland, but with a dash of Jamaican vanilla extract.",
    "Millennium Challenge No. 1 — How to Stop Spontaneity — Was Written When We Were Becoming Intoxicated and Sick — and What We Need to Know About Apathy and Masturbation",
    "What does it mean to be human in the first place? These are questions that can be answered with a very simple, unambiguous vocabulary",
    "I don’t think of psychotherapy as a neatly divided department. There are those who describe it as a collection of its kind, Some call it the Straight Talk Room",
    "If we had a rigid and limited set of thoughts and behavior, people might be able to talk about their problems — but we don’t want that because we don’t have a place for them.",
    "The art of predicting marriages is based on a very basic fact. All marriages have one thing in common: They start somewhere, They are related.",
    "A player assumes the entire risk of running for a whole set of seats in a one-on-one encounter. It’s a position that allows him to quietly get lost in the shuffle. Is that an accident?",
    " It’s hard to find someone who can provide a consistent and accurate description of what really happens inside the locked door of those locked door slumbers.",
    "The truth is that we don’t have that kind of enumeration of thoughts and feelings.",
    "Traumatic brain injury is very common. We learn to verbalize this almost unconsciously.",
    " When we are exposed to negative stereotypes, we become less and less sensitive to the positive associations we have about the other person.",


PARED DOWN SAMPLES:

A better way forward, however, is for doctors to teach their patients the difference between threat and control.

We’re talking about “Wonderful Coke. It’s a drink that tastes just like a “tea from Finland, but with a dash of Jamaican vanilla extract and a dash of crumbly lime. In the background, there is an espresso shot.” This is a great way to start your day. It’s called a latte, after the Indian-American beverage used in Starbucks’s espresso machines.

Millennium Challenge No. 1 — How to Stop Spontaneity — Was Written When We Were Becoming Intoxicated and Sick — and What We Need to Know About Apathy and Masturbation

What does it mean to be human? What does it mean to be human in the first place? These are questions that can be answered with a very simple, unambiguous vocabulary: “We are all human.” “You are not all human.” 

I don’t think of psychotherapy as a neatly divided department. There are those who describe it as a collection of its kind. Some call it the Straight Talk Room, and there are even groups dedicated to improving the lives of people who need help. 

What I want to see is a place where people come together and talk about their problems, their issues, and share their stories. If we had a rigid and limited set of thoughts and behavior, people might be able to talk about their problems — but we don’t want that because we don’t have a place for them.

The art of predicting marriages is based on a very basic fact. All marriages have one thing in common: They start somewhere. They are related.

A player assumes the entire risk of running for a whole set of seats in a one-on-one encounter. It’s a position that allows him to quietly get lost in the shuffle. Is that an accident?”

 It’s hard to find someone who can provide a consistent and accurate description of what really happens inside the locked door of those locked door slumbers.

The truth is that we don’t have that kind of enumeration of thoughts and feelings. We might have lots and lots of them, and we need to find those right people

Traumatic brain injury is very common. We learn to verbalize this almost unconsciously.

 When we are exposed to negative stereotypes, we become less and less sensitive to the positive associations we have about the other person.


RAW TEXT:

======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 et a very nice group of four women. They had a lot to say about How I Met My Mother, their reactions to the’s suggestion and the discussion they had of Who’s Hospitalier? Within seconds, all fours would end up on the same page.” How did it happen? Van Riper says he and the other researchers decided to experiment. They set up a blind taste test with Betty and Billiard balls in the sink. They gave everyone a warm-up cartoon of Who’sée? and got really excited by the results. The viewers of the experiment were quite a bit different from the general public. They weren’t as irate and grouchy. They were more like the next member of the tasting committee, someone who happens to recognize everyone but JENNIFER SKY? Who said pomp and circumstance mean so much in life?

How and why they did what they did seemed to have been thoroughly explained by the videotape taken of them sitting next to each other. Van Riper and his colleagues at Brown were “fists up, down, sideways, and milliseconds apart in age.” They weren’t supposed to be in that position. Instead, they were paired with Billiard ballerinas whom JENNIFER SKY calls the ­moments: the primers into which the athletes are throwing themselves. When the players sit down, in the neutral position they look up and down at the screen, an algorithm pops out its own instruction book. In the accelerated sequences of events, the ­moments switch from sideways to up and down, giving the player four sequences of actions that either lead him or her to a neutral stance or are incompatible with that stance. In the accelerated sequences of events, the position of the knees improves, allowing the players to lean forward a little more easily and to push their body forward a lot more easily. In both of those sequences, JENNIFER SKY leans forward a lot more easily. It doesn’t seem like he sees the screen as an ironclad guarantee of good health and efficient movement, but it seems to me like an open invitation to malpractice. A player assumes the entire risk of running for a whole set of seats in a one-on-one encounter. It’s a position that allows him to quietly get lost in the shuffle. Is that an accident?”

The decisions made by Schultz and Hill between 2006 and 2008, at the Department of Veterans Affairs hospital in Chicago and in the nearby Blair–Doherty hospital in Michigan, suggest that the brain is capable of creating an instantaneous, exhaustive account of all the thinking and feelings going on behind the locked door of bed. This is what happens when our unconscious comes to us and acts as a kind of valet. It takes care of one problem, and if we can access that valet’s valet’s valet’s valet’s imagination, the next problem, and the next step in the process of erasing us from the field, there is nothing to write home about.

But how accurately can an enumeration of all the thoughts and feelings go? It’s hard to find someone who can provide a consistent and accurate description of what really happens inside the locked door of those locked door slumbers. But at least some experts believe that people can accurately describe the emotional state of someone under stress — the state of being in what is called a stable, normally functioning mind. A patient will describe a stressful situation and then make a decision to go to the management desk. An attending doctor will describe the experience and then make a decision to take a blood sample and, in a few moments, he or she will be sitting there with a haze of information flooding his or her eyes. And what do the attendees think? A healthy 15–20 percent. Who does that patient think is? Who knows for sure? The truth is that we don’t have that kind of enumeration of thoughts and feelings. We might have lots and lots of them, and we need to find those right people.





5. Listening to Doctors


Let’s take the concept of thin-slicing one step further. Imagine you work for a medical device company and are looking for experienced auditions director­s.“You come to the training facility and you are approached by a bunch of rowdy rowdy hooligans.” There are two analysts in this room. One is dressed for battle. The other is wearing a uniform that says, “Leave it to Me,” “Robot.” Where are the bluffs and the trees? The guys are cutting through the trees and the nurses are picking up the dirt? And the nurse says to the bunch, “What did you just fucking say about your breast exam?” What’s that smell like? The nurses say, “Ohhh, it’

======== SAMPLE 1 ========
: What you can do, I think, is walk the students toward the glass case and let them try something different.”

Millennium Challenge No. 1 — How to Stop Spontaneity — Was Written When We Were Becoming Intoxicated and Sick — and What We Need to Know About Apathy and Masturbation

Over the past few years, a number of psychologists have begun to look beyond the conventional wisdom on how to improve the treatment of alcoholism and toward more fundamental questions about what it means to be human. What does it mean to be human? What does it mean to be human in the first place? These are questions that can be answered with a very simple, unambiguous vocabulary: “We are all human.” “You are not all human.” “Then say what you mean and don’t be fooled.” “All human activities are sacrifice.” “Say something negative to me. Traumatic brain injury is very common. We learn to verbalize this almost unconsciously. But how? By exposure. When we are exposed to negative stereotypes, we become less and less sensitive to the positive associations we have about the other person. We become much more and more sensitive to the fact that all human associations have positive associations. For example, I’m sure that a woman can easily provide a sense of security and comfort to her family. I know from years of research that only a small percentage of couples ever ask about their feelings about women, and that’s why it matters: they have no idea what negative emotions have been about. But many people do, and what they don’t know is that their female friends are anxious and frustrated, and that they often talk poorly of whether they have a problem that needs solving. They may even suggest that marriage, their children, or some conflict — all have a strong emotional place in the life ofptych. In many cases, negative associations are harmless: we may be fooled by their exaggerated appearance and negative associations are harmless. But sometimes we need to expose our unconscious — in order to be effective in dealing with negative emotions, we need to be able to nonactively communicate our feelings. “Nonverbal Communication: Aesthetics and Numerals,” Scientific American 260, no. 6 (June 1989): 104

Theories of Effect and Control

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

Effects of Physical Conditions on the System

References

Allen, Craig, 229–32

Ayres, Craig, 231

Ambady, Nalini, and two others

autism: et al

autism expert panel: mal

autism: information

autism: voice

autism: social

autism: pattern recognition

autism: balance

Ayres, Craig, 228

Banaji, Mahzarin, and eight others

Barghjohn, Mahzarin, 253

baseball, 54

baseball decisions: and predicted success

basketball, 55–56

basketball is known to cause an effect on the autonomic nervous system. It is important to recognize, however, that this does not mean that the autonomic nervous system is perfectly healthy. The autonomic nervous system is one of the most primitive of all nervous systems, capable of acting on the instructions of the brain. Furthermore, picking up on subtle signals of stress, such as the rise and fall of an individual mood, it is not clear how well the system would handle a stressful situation. For example, if you were me, performing a test of throwing a tennis ball, my autonomic nervous system wouldn’t be able to take care of the rest. In short, you wouldn’t be able to throw a tennis ball at the right time and safely. In baseball, where throwing a ball can be dangerous, hitting the ball hard enough to make you dizzy is a very dangerous move. This means that when someone is struck by a car, he or she has an even chance of surviving long after it has hit the ground.

The adaptive unconscious

The part of the brain that sits outside of the conscious mind that’s constantly rewiring itself is called the adaptive unconscious. It’s a wonderful tool when you are looking ahead to the future, and it allows you to stay ahead of the times. But it?s a problem because it erases you from the picture

======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 made his name. I’m like McGhee. He’s from Louisiana, and he’s one of the most intelligent people I’m ever met. He has this nerdy sense of humor, and he starts the next round with a question. “What did you think when you first met Sally?” Ekman paused, looking around the room. “Have you ever wondered why?” he said, looking at me. “You’ll never have realized you’ve borrowed a concept from another person. Just by looking at someone, say, at a table. Or at the glazed faces of some at-ace women. Or the way they look when they are behind a screen. Or the way they look in the mirror. Or the fact that they have dogmatic, nonconforming facial expressions. “You know, in a lot of ways, he’s a wonderful example of a psychologist treating every emotion “love,” Evans says. “You have to listen to that as an individual. You have to understand someone in that way.”

I don’t think of psychotherapy as a neatly divided department. There are those who describe it as a collection of its kind. Some call it the Straight Talk Room, and there are even groups dedicated to improving the lives of people who need help. What I want to see is a place where people come together and talk about their problems, their issues, and share their stories. If we had a rigid and limited set of thoughts and behavior, people might be able to talk about their problems — but we don’t want that because we don’t have a place for them.

Many years ago, the psychologist Norman R. F. Maier hung twelve highly successful psychologists on wire cages in his laboratory in California. Each of the men held a different opinion on a particular problem, and his conclusions were usually wrong — or, at least, not very valid. The results were devastating. The psychologists said they could not perform the analysis that Maier said he was trying to convey. “It’s like drafts of papers you get on the wall,” Maier says. “If you put together a lot of different kinds of documents, like papers on paper or CDs filled with your papers, you get togetherslot there won’t be many of you. I assume, just assumes, that people will say the same thing about anything, which in the actual case of a joint is a good thing.” But what Maier was doing was spontaneous generation think. He didn’t rely on volunteers or computer models. He was watching these people’s movements, and if the joint’s overall state was not acting up, he knew that he would do a full-body scan.

My guess is that most of you have had a good deal of trouble believing that Maier’s system of rating faces is wrong. Actually, it’s better: an algorithm — an opinion on the most common faces in the world. If you are a big fan of the IAT, then this is an excellent way to go.

You can find more information on the dangers of Maier’s method in his book The Art of the Rip Jeter:

The art of the Rip Jeter — the manipulation, in fact, of Baroness Harding’s real-world measurements

Margolis, Charlotte

The art of predicting marriages

The art of predicting marriages is based on a very basic fact. All marriages have one thing in common: They start somewhere. They are related.

The sign of a marriage is its structure. For a marriage to survive, some part of its equation has to be attached to something related to that marriage. The elements of meaning and excitement that marked one wedding, like the aromas that marked the kitchen table, replaced those of fruitless chatter that marked fruitless hours later. The event that marked the couple’s first visit to the grocery store came immediately — a few minutes. Then it happened. For a couple to survive on fruit, these were the same things that Mark and Martha had survived the Knoll disaster: stability, proximity to friends, high-quality food, and the like. But after five minutes, they found something different. This time, they decided to skip the fruitless hour-long meetings and spend the evening with their parents. They were wrong. By fixing the hour-long meeting at four in the morning, they meant that they had decided on a date a few months earlier than they did morning meetings. But when combined with the fact that the parents were away during the month, this new and entirely new fact meant that they had decided on a date already. They were in the right — and still more important, they were right — place to go for a date.

Van Riper was clearly the kind of person who was able to keep his word. He was thoughtful and open-minded, and he was a mannered and articulate man with a broadcasting sense of humor. In the movies, he would turn and look at a viewerstration, looking for “sensation” — the instantaneous, automatic associations that jump out whenever something is said or done. In real life, he hears people talking, and he observes them automatically, as if they had been human. “Who did the voiceover for Mother?” wondered Reilly. “Everybody. Their body language was “naturally masculine,” and they would look at it and say, “right”. That’s how they looked. That’s exactly the way we want to see this movie.”

For the most ambitious and successful screenwriters, that’s what they end up with. To get on the big screen, there must be a distinctive signature that everyone associate with each character, and that draws viewers in. That signature is exactly what Brendan Eich and his team at Pixar were trying to create with Mother. It was a concept that seemed logical and straightforward, and when Eich and his team analyzed the film and played back the film in high definition, they came up with a formula that they believed would work: if you took the time to analyze each frame of the movie as a whole, and if you were to analyze the entire length of the movie, you would come up with a set formula for how the whole movie looked when the two actors were playing each other.

Eich and his team presented their formula to the film and music business. They were told it wasn’t a valid prediction. Music industry executives said, “Fyfe, you are right. We’ve tested it. Let’s test it again.” The results were what you would expect. The big companies would predict with absolute certainty with absolute certainty that a movie by Eich would be okay, and with absolute certainty with absolute certainty, with an orchestra by their side, and with absolute certainty with absolute certainty, with a play by their side, and with absolute certainty with certainty, with pre-emptive boarding, and everyone would get up and play again by the end of the year.

But the music business? It found the same thing. The Hollywood music business was nothing to everyone else but just another target. The movie industry? It was dominated by people who thought that rock music was hopelessly boring. The movie industry? It was for everyone. It was for everybody.

“There was one I’d played over and over by all the executives from the beginning,” Eich remembers. “They were all looking at me like I was some kind of crazy lunatic.”

Eich and his colleagues at the time weren’t the kind of people who weremuddling their way through weeks and months of auditions. They were notexperts in sound design or session design or whatever. They werejust plain old music listeners. They were dressed for battle. They were dressed for battle. They were given a uniform for the four months of the war game. They were given a music service plan and a methodology for planning and executing it. They were given the rules of engagement and an understanding of how to interpret them. They were given a methodology for understanding the Internet and the rules of engagement and an understanding of how to interpret music. They were given the latest and greatest and the most comprehensive source of information on new and emerging technologies. They were given the most efficient and the most accurate means of communicating. They were given the most powerful music videos on the Internet and the most comprehensive library of music in the language of classical music. They were given the most accessible and the most accurate means of educating listeners. They were given the most money making and the most accessible music videos on the Internet. They were given the most resources and the most effective marketing strategies. They were given the most ideas and the most money making.

Eich and his colleagues at the time had a very simple explanation for what they was seeing. They were looking at just people over the telephone and then making calls on the Internet. They were simply making a few simple decisions, and over the telephone the people in the audience could make a few very obvious and very ambiguous comments. (Eich and his colleagues may well have thought that if they had used the same set of tools, the audience for these kinds of decisions would have been much larger than they are now.) But that explanation was utterly wrong. The audience for these kinds of decisions is not even half of what the public thinks
Activities
Explore different finetuning texts (of your choice) and their results.
